>> Scott Moss: So
controllers and responding.
And so far we really haven't
talked about controllers.
The only responding we
looked at was rest.json.
I didn't tell you anything more,
intentionally.
So basically, controllers,
they have access to the incoming requests.
Without that they would
be kind of pointless.
[LAUGH] So
every time there's a request made,
that function that we passed into
that path, that eventually, you know.
We have like those sub routers and
those sub routers, and
eventually have the function.
That function right
there is the controller,
it has like I said access to
the request we can see right here.
It's got the request It's got the response
object that express gives us and
then it has this next thing.
And that's optional,
we'll talk about the next thing.
We are gonna be reusing controllers
because we're doing reqs right now and,
like I said, it's the exact same thing for
every single resource that we have.
You can tell by looking at
the last exercise you just did.
All this is the same
on every single route.
So therefore, the controls
are probably gonna be the same too.
So why recreate them?
We're just gonna have one file that
takes in the resource and does it.
The controllers should be async.
>> Scott Moss: I guess it
could be synchronous, but
you should keep them asynchronous.
So the difference, okay,
let me explain it like this.
The whole thing about note is,
it's an asynchronous architecture.
It's event driven, it's a really good for
concurrency and stuff like that.
But if you use a lot of like, taxing
synchronous code, you're going to block.
You're gonna block note, right.
So for instance, if somebody comes
in with a request, and all a sudden,
you do a I don't know,
a wild loop or something like that.
You're gonna block the whole process,
right?
Nothing's gonna work, so
you kinda wanna keep things a-synch and
that's down to like logging.
You don't even want to log
synchronous because you might think,
it's just a console.log.
Okay, well let's say you've got
a console.log inside of a request with
10,000 I don't know 5000 requests
per second or something like that.
That cause a log is gonna be blocking,
every time.
And eventually is gonna build up and
you probably will have like a crash.
So, I've actually,
that's actually happened before.
I worked with some clients and they cannot
figure out why they couldn't get pass
a certain threshold on their load testing
and it turns out that they had logs, logs.
So instead of writing to the console we,
wrote to a file instead.
All right, and
that sped it up dramatically.
So you kinda wanna keep things async,
try to stay away from synchronous code.
But you can totally put
synchronous code in there.
It's not a big deal, especially if
you're not doing anything async.
Don't make it async if you're not doing
anything async, you know what I mean?
But don't do anything
long-pulling like while loops and
writing to files synchronously and
reading files synchronously If
you can do it async, do it async.
Controls are composable,
because at the end of the day,
they're really just middleware.
And again, we'll get to middleware, but
you can reuse these things because they
take in the same requirements,
they take in the same response, and
they also have the ability to pass
control over to something else.
And they can pretty much
respond with anything, right?
We've been responding with JSON But
we can respond with a file,
we can respond with an asset,
we can respond with stream, buffer,
we can pretty much respond with Express.
>> Speaker 2: And
that's through the controller yeah.
>> Scott Moss: Actually
responds is a controller, but
technically nowhere can respond too.
Like for instance, you're gonna see,
it's already in there actually.
But we have middleware that
does authentication, and
if it determines you're not authenticated,
it will respond, versus sending it to
the controller and letting it respond.
It will stop it right there.
Like no, you're not authenticated.
I'm not letting you go any further.
So let's just hop into some
exercises right quick then.
So if we go look inside that query JS,
the first thing is this
you'll notice this controllers method,
and it's literally just doing nothing.
It's just returning this test data.
That's fine, this is for another
example when we talk about databases.
Forget about that,
what you're gonna be working on is
down here in these methods down here,
where it says, createOne, updateOne,
deleteOne, getOne, getAll, findByParam.
We're not so concerned with
the database query right now.
We're really just
concerned with responding.
We're really concerned with use.
So what we're gonna do
is we're gonna assume
That these controllers
up here are functional.
Right now they are not,
they're just returning a promise, right?
But let's assume that they're going to the
database, they are doing something, right?
So with that assumption, you want to
consume these controller methods above
inside these actual controllers
given the model and the request.
So if you scroll down I'm doing
a little bit of meta programming here.
Little bit of meta programming.
Little bit of generation going on here.
You can see that,
I'm passing in the model.
And so in this case this model
might be the song model.
It might be the playlist model.
It might be user model for
each one of those models I'm
creating these controllers.
Which are the results of these functions.
These functions taken any model,
they return the functions
as it's crazy sometimes.
This is a function returning
another function as it is,
looking like what is that two errors
there it is just this the same thing.
>> Scott Moss: That's data, right?
So, this thing takes in the model,
creates a closer and returns the actual
controller that allows me to do this, it
allows me to take the model in like that.
So, this returns a function that is
eventually going to be the controller.
So, [INAUDIBLE] using
[INAUDIBLE] my coding.
So basically what we're gonna have
to do is, let's work on one of them.
Let's work on createOne.
So on createOne, like I said we're gonna
take advantage of these controls up here.
Assuming that they're done.
There's a createOne method here, right.
So what we're gonna do is we're gonna
use the controllers at createOne,
satisfy the arguments,
which are the model and the body.
And then just let it do its job and
then respond appropriately.
So we're gonna be using,
right coming down here to createOne
we're gonna say, okay, cool.
So I know the model,
I don't really care what the model is.
I'm just gonna pass it in, so
I'm gonna say, okay, cool.
I want to controllers.createOne.
And if we go look at the arguments for it,
Takes in a model, and then the body.
The body is the incoming body from the
request, we're creating a resource, right?
So we expect the client to send
us the resource to create, right?
How else would we create it?
So we need that, so
we're gonna pass in those two things and
therefore it's gonna create it.
So we have the model,
it's right there And then, for
the actual resource,
that's going to be- I'm sorry.
For the actual body,
that's going to be on the request.
Everything from the request is
going to be on the request object.
And that's actually going to
be in a req.body by default
that's not going to be there.
We got ourselves some middleware.
When we get some middleware,
you see what that looks like.
But basically, some middleware is
gonna take the JSON that you post, and
it's gonna put it there for us.
>> Scott Moss: Okay, and then what you
wanna do, because this is a promise,
you wanna go ahead and just return this.
Actually, you don't really have to
return if you don't want to, but
the important thing is you need to resolve
the promise like this, using the .then,
you get the results.
And then what do we want
to do with the result?
We want to go ahead and send it back and
we're just going to assume it's JSON, so
we say result like that.
>> Scott Moss: But let's say this errored
out, and we want to catch the error.
Something you can do right here in line,
we'll get to error header later,
but you could just go ahead and
catch this error, and go you know what?
I want to catch this error right here.
Let's say you want to
send back a server error.
So you can do something like res.status.
Change the error code or
the scp to whatever you want.
Then you can call it .send,
which will send back a message.
>> Scott Moss: And
then now you send back a message back
to your client with a status of 500,
that says things re not looking good.
>> Scott Moss: And because we're using
meta-programming region generation,
this one method will work for the create
one of every single create one here.
It's the exact same thing.
They're all the same thing.
If you want to verify you can go into the
dot controller file of every appropriate
resource and you can see that's
what I'm generating right there.
Generate controllers for user.
Generate controllers for play list.
Generate controllers for
a song that's how I'm generating it.
You could just come in here,
and write them all one by one,
if you want, it's totally fine.
But they're all the same thing,
so why not just generate it?
This allows us to test easily, too.
Now, all we have to do is test our,
this code.
Versus testing every single thing,
which is the same thing, cool?
So before I let y'all loose,
I'm gonna talk more about some of
the ways you can Respond to things.
I would come in here and, if I were you,
[INAUDIBLE] this request object and
see what it looks like.
There's a lot of crazy stuff on there,
IP addresses, headers, all types of stuff.
Let's talk about some of
the responses you can do here.
Lets just open up a playground
of Let's go to this get one,
we'll do some stuff in here.
So, I'm not going to mess with
the modeling thing right now,
I'm just going to mess
with some responses.
So let's say I want to
respond with just anything.
I'm gonna do res.send hello.
So res.send is something you
probably haven't seen Basically, you
can just send whatever you want, and then
Express will try to figure out what it is.
Like, all right.
I'm just going to try to figure out
what it is you're trying to send.
Right now it's a string, so
it's easy for it to figure it out.
When you start putting complex stuff
in there, you just don't use it.
It's just like the catch all, here.
Express, figure out what this thing is and
send it, and
do it appropriately res.send
allows me to send stuff like that.
You saw res.json allows you to
send back anything, any object.
That will encode it in json and
it also sets it to
application json, the headers,
so it will do that.
>> Scott Moss: And then if you want to be
able to control the status of a response
before you send it,
you could just do .status.
For instance, on POST request,
technically a POST request
should be status 201, right?
So before you respond to a POST request,
you might change the status to 201.
And then you can chain your
appropriate method after it.
Seem like, a res.status(201),
and then json, and
then pass in your json data here.
>> Scott Moss: All right, so
that's some of the stuff you could do.
You can also do sendFile, which you can
give it a path to a file in your app and
it will send that file back.
So that's great for
sending back HTML pages.
It also ties into templating.
So let's say you are using express
to build a service site ap that uses
handlebars or EJS and
stuff like that, you would use this.
Res.sin file or res.render or
something like that, so
you would do a lot of that stuff.
So there is a lot of ways you
would use express to respond well.
Because we are building an AVI
that's response adjacent.
We are going to be doing this,
almost every time Until it's an error.
Like we're not sending back access.
This isn't sending back images.
This isn't sending back anything.
We're literally just building an API,
a JSON API, so
most of our requests will be this.
And the fact because it is, and
we probably need different error
messages to satisfy our client,
most likely we'll build an abstraction
around that response.json.
That takes in a message and
something like that,
that way you can respond appropriately.
You can have different types of responses
for the JSON, but that's for production.